Welcome to pointers and references in this section of the Course you'll learn how to use one of the
most powerful elements in the C++ programming language the pointer pointers give the programmer the
power to work directly with the computer's memory and that includes allocating and deallocating memory
dynamically at runtime as it's required by the program.
You might have heard horror stories from other programmers about pointers and how difficult they can
be to use and the damage they can cause when used improperly.
You may have also heard that Java and Python and other programming languages don't have pointers because
they can cause so many issues C++ pointers give you more power over your machine than you could ever
achieve with languages like Java and Python.
Now that's not have not come Java or Python.
It all comes down to why the languages were created and what domains are typically used in C++ programs
are used extensively to develop operating systems systems software device drivers embedded systems and
so forth with these systems.
We want to be in complete control over the hardware.
We don't want a virtual machine handling memory or checking for everything that could go wrong.
We just simply can't afford that extra overhead at runtime where this power comes responsibility responsibility
to understand how to use and release memory efficiently and correctly.
And this is one of the main use cases for pointers in this section will learn about what a pointer is.
Guess what.
It's a variable that was easier.
My point is that pointers are not this mysterious concept that's virtually impossible to understand.
Pointers are easy to understand and use.
We just need to learn to use them correctly.
The syntax around using pointers is the part that can be a little intimidating at first but as usual
I use my handy drawing pad and walk you through it all in detail.
Well learn how to declare pointers store addresses and pointers and dereference pointers.
That means getting what they're pointing to.
Then we'll learn how to allocate memory dynamically from the heap or the Freestore.
This opens up a new world of problem solving.
Then we'll talk about pointer arithmetic and see how similar pointers and arrays are.
We'll also learn to do pass by reference with pointers this time and will also learn how the Konst qualifier
applies to pointers.
Finally we're talking about some of the pointer potential pitfalls what can go wrong and what kinds
of things can happen when you use pointers incorrectly.
Then I will switch over and talk about references.
We've already seen references when we talked about functions in the last section.
Remember how references are aliases in this section will quickly reveal what we learned about references
in the last section of the course and will see a few more ways that we can use references.
Finally everything we learn in this section regarding pointers is using C++ as raw pointers.
There is a ton of code out there that uses raw pointers and it's important to understand them completely
but C++ also has smart pointers.
These are pointers that eliminate many of the safety problems with raw pointers but it's still very
efficient to use while smart pointers are used more often with object orientation and are considered
a more advanced C++ topic.
I'll provide an overview in this section so that's it a lot to cover in this section but it's all very
focused and shouldn't take too long at all before you completely understand pointers and references.
First let's see exactly what a pointer is in the next video.